.Dd January 1, 1980
.\" nixpkgs groff will use Nixpkgs as the OS in the title by default, taking it from
.\" doc-default-operating-system. mandoc doesn't have this register set by default,
.\" so we can use it as a groff/mandoc switch.
.ie ddoc-default-operating-system .Dt nixos-option \&8 "NixOS System Manager's Manual"
.el .Dt nixos-option 8
.Os NixOS
.Sh NAME
.Nm nixos-option
.Nd inspect a NixOS configuration
.
.
.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl r | -recursive
.Op Fl I Ar path
.Ar option.name
.
.
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This command evaluates the configuration specified in
.Pa /etc/nixos/configuration.nix
and returns the properties of the option name given as argument.
.
.Pp
When the option name is not an option, the command prints the list of attributes
contained in the attribute set.
.
.
.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl r , -recursive
Print all the values at or below the specified path recursively.
.
.It Fl I Ar path
This option is passed to the underlying
.Xr nix-instantiate 1
invocation.
.El
.
.
.
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Ev NIXOS_CONFIG
Path to the main NixOS configuration module. Defaults to
.Pa /etc/nixos/configuration.nix Ns
\&.
.El
.
.
.
.Sh EXAMPLES
Investigate option values:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ nixos-option boot.loader
This attribute set contains:
generationsDir
grub
initScript

$ nixos-option boot.loader.grub.enable
Value:
true

Default:
true

Description:
Whether to enable the GNU GRUB boot loader.

Declared by:
  "/nix/var/nix/profiles/per-user/root/channels/nixos/nixpkgs/nixos/modules/system/boot/loader/grub/grub.nix"

Defined by:
  "/nix/var/nix/profiles/per-user/root/channels/nixos/nixpkgs/nixos/modules/system/boot/loader/grub/grub.nix"
.Ed
.
.
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr configuration.nix 5
.
.
.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
.An Nicolas Pierron
and
.An the Nixpkgs/NixOS contributors
