# Release 25.11 ("Xantusia", 2025.11/??) {#sec-release-25.11}

## Highlights {#sec-release-25.11-highlights}

<!-- To avoid merge conflicts, consider adding your item at an arbitrary place in the list instead. -->

- `nixos-rebuild-ng`, a full rewrite of `nixos-rebuild` in Python, is enabled by default from this release. You can disable it by setting [](#opt-system.rebuild.enableNg) to `false` in your configuration if you need, but please report any issues. It is expected that the next major version of NixOS (26.05) will remove the {option}`system.rebuild.enableNg` option.

- Secure boot support can now be enabled for the Limine bootloader through {option}`boot.loader.limine.secureBoot.enable`. Bootloader install script signs the bootloader, then kernels are hashed during system rebuild and written to a config. This allows Limine to boot only the kernels installed through NixOS system.

- The default PostgreSQL version for new NixOS installations (i.e. with `system.stateVersion >= 25.11`) is v17.

- The NetworkManager module does not ship with a default set of VPN plugins anymore. All required VPN plugins must now be explicitly configured in [`networking.networkmanager.plugins`](#opt-networking.networkmanager.plugins).

## New Modules {#sec-release-25.11-new-modules}

<!-- To avoid merge conflicts, consider adding your item at an arbitrary place in the list instead. -->

- [gtklock](https://github.com/jovanlanik/gtklock), a GTK-based lockscreen for Wayland. Available as [programs.gtklock](#opt-programs.gtklock.enable).
- [Chrysalis](https://github.com/keyboardio/Chrysalis), a graphical configurator for Kaleidoscope-powered keyboards. Available as [programs.chrysalis](#opt-programs.chrysalis.enable).

- [Pi-hole](https://pi-hole.net/), a DNS sinkhole for advertisements based on Dnsmasq. Available as [services.pihole-ftl](#opt-services.pihole-ftl.enable), and [services.pihole-web](#opt-services.pihole-web.enable) for the web GUI and API.

- [Fediwall](https://fediwall.social), a web application for live displaying toots from mastodon, inspired by mastowall. Available as [services.fediwall](#opt-services.fediwall.enable).

- [FileBrowser](https://filebrowser.org/), a web application for managing and sharing files. Available as [services.filebrowser](#opt-services.filebrowser.enable).

- Options under [networking.getaddrinfo](#opt-networking.getaddrinfo.enable) are now allowed to declaratively configure address selection and sorting behavior of `getaddrinfo` in dual-stack networks.

- [LACT](https://github.com/ilya-zlobintsev/LACT), a GPU monitoring and configuration tool, can now be enabled through [services.lact.enable](#opt-services.lact.enable).
  Note that for LACT to work properly on AMD GPU systems, you need to enable [hardware.amdgpu.overdrive.enable](#opt-hardware.amdgpu.overdrive.enable).

- Auto-scrub support for Bcachefs filesystems can now be enabled through [services.bcachefs.autoScrub.enable](#opt-services.bcachefs.autoScrub.enable) to periodically check for data corruption. If there's a correct copy available, it will automatically repair corrupted blocks.

- [tlsrpt-reporter], an application suite to generate and deliver TLSRPT reports. Available as [services.tlsrpt](#opt-services.tlsrpt.enable).

- [Broadcast Box](https://github.com/Glimesh/broadcast-box), a WebRTC broadcast server. Available as [services.broadcast-box](options.html#opt-services.broadcast-box.enable).

- Docker now defaults to 28.x, because version 27.x stopped receiving security updates and bug fixes after [May 2, 2025](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/49910).

- [Corteza](https://cortezaproject.org/), a low-code platform. Available as [services.corteza](#opt-services.corteza.enable).

- [Draupnir](https://github.com/the-draupnir-project/draupnir), a Matrix moderation bot. Available as [services.draupnir](#opt-services.draupnir.enable).

- [postfix-tlspol](https://github.com/Zuplu/postfix-tlspol), MTA-STS and DANE resolver and TLS policy server for Postfix. Available as [services.postfix-tlspol](#opt-services.postfix-tlspol.enable).

- [Szurubooru](https://github.com/rr-/szurubooru), an image board engine inspired by services such as Danbooru, dedicated for small and medium communities. Available as [services.szurubooru](#opt-services.szurubooru.enable).

- The [Neat IP Address Planner](https://spritelink.github.io/NIPAP/) (NIPAP) can now be enabled through [services.nipap.enable](#opt-services.nipap.enable).

- [nix-store-veritysetup](https://github.com/nikstur/nix-store-veritysetup-generator), a systemd generator to unlock the Nix Store as a dm-verity protected block device. Available as [boot.initrd.nix-store-veritysetup](options.html#opt-boot.initrd.nix-store-veritysetup.enable).

- [SuiteNumérique Docs](https://github.com/suitenumerique/docs), a collaborative note taking, wiki and documentation web platform and alternative to Notion or Outline. Available as [services.lasuite-docs](#opt-services.lasuite-docs.enable).

- [dwl](https://codeberg.org/dwl/dwl), a compact, hackable compositor for Wayland based on wlroots. Available as [programs.dwl](#opt-programs.dwl.enable).

- [Sharkey](https://joinsharkey.org), a Sharkish microblogging platform. Available as [services.sharkey](#opt-services.sharkey.enable).

- [mautrix-discord](https://github.com/mautrix/discord), a Matrix-Discord puppeting/relay bridge. Available as [services.mautrix-discord](#opt-services.mautrix-discord.enable).

- [SuiteNumérique Meet](https://github.com/suitenumerique/meet) is an open source alternative to Google Meet and Zoom powered by LiveKit: HD video calls, screen sharing, and chat features. Built with Django and React. Available as [services.lasuite-meet](#opt-services.lasuite-meet.enable).

## Backward Incompatibilities {#sec-release-25.11-incompatibilities}

<!-- To avoid merge conflicts, consider adding your item at an arbitrary place in the list instead. -->

- The Perl implementation of the `switch-to-configuration` program is removed. All switchable systems now use the Rust rewrite. Any prior usage of `system.switch.enableNg` must now be removed. If you have any outstanding issues with the new implementation, please open an issue on GitHub.

- The `services.polipo` module has been removed as `polipo` is unmaintained and archived upstream.

- The Pocket ID module ([`services.pocket-id`][#opt-services.pocket-id.enable]) and package (`pocket-id`) has been updated to 1.0.0. Some environment variables have been changed or removed, see the [migration guide](https://pocket-id.org/docs/setup/migrate-to-v1/).

- []{#sec-release-25.11-incompatibilities-sourcehut-removed} The `services.sourcehut` module and corresponding `sourcehut` packages were removed due to being broken and unmaintained.

- The `dovecot` systemd service was renamed from `dovecot2` to `dovecot`. The former is now just an alias. Update any overrides on the systemd unit to the new name.

- The `yeahwm` package and `services.xserver.windowManager.yeahwm` module were removed due to the package being broken and unmaintained upstream.

- The `services.postgresql` module now sets up a systemd unit `postgresql.target`. Depending on `postgresql.target` guarantees that postgres is in read-write mode and initial/ensure scripts were executed. Depending on `postgresql.service` only guarantees a read-only connection.

- The `services.siproxd` module has been removed as `siproxd` is unmaintained and broken with libosip 5.x.

- `netbox-manage` script created by the `netbox` module no longer uses `sudo -u netbox` internally. It can be run as root and will change it's user to `netbox` using `runuser`

- `services.dwm-status.extraConfig` was replaced by [RFC0042](https://github.com/NixOS/rfcs/blob/master/rfcs/0042-config-option.md)-compliant [](#opt-services.dwm-status.settings), which is used to generate the config file. `services.dwm-status.order` is now moved to [](#opt-services.dwm-status.settings.order), as it's a part of the config file.

- `gitversion` was updated to 6.3.0, which includes a number of breaking changes, old configurations may need updating or they will cause the tool to fail to run.
  See the [6.0.0 release notes for GitVersion](https://github.com/GitTools/GitVersion/releases/tag/6.0.0) for details on the breaking changes, [the documentation on the configuration format](https://gitversion.net/docs/reference/configuration) for the new configuration specification, and [the documentation on version variables](https://gitversion.net/docs/reference/variables) for what is now supported.

- `renovate` was updated to v41. See the upstream release notes for [v40](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/releases/tag/40.0.0) and [v41](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/releases/tag/41.0.0) for breaking changes.

- The `boot.readOnlyNixStore` has been removed. Control over bind mount options on `/nix/store` is now offered by the `boot.nixStoreMountOpts` option.

- The Postfix module has been updated and likely requires configuration changes:
  - The `services.postfix.sslCert` and `sslKey` options were removed and you now need to configure
    - [services.postfix.config.smtpd_tls_chain_files](#opt-services.postfix.config.smtpd_tls_chain_files) for server certificates,
    - [services.postfix.config.smtp_tls_chain_files](#opt-services.postfix.config) for client certificates.

- `vmalert` now supports multiple instances with the option `services.vmalert.instances."".enable`

- [`services.victorialogs.package`](#opt-services.victorialogs.package) now defaults to `victorialogs`, as `victoriametrics` no longer contains the VictoriaLogs binaries.

- The `wstunnel` module was converted to RFC42-style settings, you will need to update your NixOS config if you make use of this module.

## Other Notable Changes {#sec-release-25.11-notable-changes}

<!-- To avoid merge conflicts, consider adding your item at an arbitrary place in the list instead. -->

- `services.clamsmtp` is unmaintained and was removed from Nixpkgs.

- `services.dnscrypt-proxy2` gains a `package` option to specify dnscrypt-proxy package to use.

- `services.gitea` supports sending notifications with sendmail again. To do this, activate the parameter `services.gitea.mailerUseSendmail` and configure SMTP server.

- `services.ntpd-rs` now performs configuration validation.

- `services.monero` now includes the `environmentFile` option for adding secrets to the Monero daemon config.

- `amdgpu` kernel driver overdrive mode can now be enabled by setting [hardware.amdgpu.overdrive.enable](#opt-hardware.amdgpu.overdrive.enable) and customized through [hardware.amdgpu.overdrive.ppfeaturemask](#opt-hardware.amdgpu.overdrive.ppfeaturemask).
  This allows for fine-grained control over the GPU's performance and maybe required by overclocking softwares like Corectrl and Lact. These new options replace old options such as {option}`programs.corectrl.gpuOverclock.enable` and {option}`programs.tuxclocker.enableAMD`.

- [](#opt-services.gnome.gnome-keyring.enable) does not ship with an SSH agent anymore, as this is now handled by the `gcr_4` package instead of `gnome-keyring`. A new module has been added to support this, under [](#opt-services.gnome.gcr-ssh-agent.enable) (its default value has been set to [](#opt-services.gnome.gnome-keyring.enable) to ensure a smooth transition). See the [relevant upstream PR](https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/gcr/-/merge_requests/67) for more details.

- The `nettools` package (ifconfig, arp, mii-tool, netstat, route) is not installed by default anymore. The suite is unmaintained and users should migrate to `iproute2` and `ethtool` instead.
