# Release 23.05 (“Stoat”, 2023.05/??) {#sec-release-23.05}

Support is planned until the end of December 2023, handing over to 23.11.

## Highlights {#sec-release-23.05-highlights}

In addition to numerous new and upgraded packages, this release has the following highlights:

<!-- To avoid merge conflicts, consider adding your item at an arbitrary place in the list instead. -->

- Cinnamon has been updated to 5.6, see [the pull request](https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/pull/201328#issue-1449910204) for what is changed.

- `nixos-rebuild` now supports an extra `--specialisation` option that can be used to change specialisation for `switch` and `test` commands.

## New Services {#sec-release-23.05-new-services}

<!-- To avoid merge conflicts, consider adding your item at an arbitrary place in the list instead. -->

- [Akkoma](https://akkoma.social), an ActivityPub microblogging server. Available as [services.akkoma](options.html#opt-services.akkoma.enable).

- [blesh](https://github.com/akinomyoga/ble.sh), a line editor written in pure bash. Available as [programs.bash.blesh](#opt-programs.bash.blesh.enable).

- [webhook](https://github.com/adnanh/webhook), a lightweight webhook server. Available as [services.webhook](#opt-services.webhook.enable).

- [cups-pdf-to-pdf](https://github.com/alexivkin/CUPS-PDF-to-PDF), a pdf-generating cups backend based on [cups-pdf](https://www.cups-pdf.de/). Available as [services.printing.cups-pdf](#opt-services.printing.cups-pdf.enable).

- [Cloudlog](https://www.magicbug.co.uk/cloudlog/), a web-based Amateur Radio logging application. Available as [services.cloudlog](#opt-services.cloudlog.enable).

- [fzf](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf), a command line fuzzyfinder. Available as [programs.fzf](#opt-programs.fzf.fuzzyCompletion).

- [gmediarender](https://github.com/hzeller/gmrender-resurrect), a simple, headless UPnP/DLNA renderer.  Available as [services.gmediarender](options.html#opt-services.gmediarender.enable).

- [stevenblack-blocklist](https://github.com/StevenBlack/hosts), A unified hosts file with base extensions for blocking unwanted websites. Available as [networking.stevenblack](options.html#opt-networking.stevenblack.enable).

- [goeland](https://github.com/slurdge/goeland), an alternative to rss2email written in golang with many filters. Available as [services.goeland](#opt-services.goeland.enable).

- [atuin](https://github.com/ellie/atuin), a sync server for shell history. Available as [services.atuin](#opt-services.atuin.enable).

- [mmsd](https://gitlab.com/kop316/mmsd), a lower level daemon that transmits and recieves MMSes. Available as [services.mmsd](#opt-services.mmsd.enable).

- [v2rayA](https://v2raya.org), a Linux web GUI client of Project V which supports V2Ray, Xray, SS, SSR, Trojan and Pingtunnel. Available as [services.v2raya](options.html#opt-services.v2raya.enable).

- [ulogd](https://www.netfilter.org/projects/ulogd/index.html), a userspace logging daemon for netfilter/iptables related logging. Available as [services.ulogd](options.html#opt-services.ulogd.enable).

- [photoprism](https://photoprism.app/), a AI-Powered Photos App for the Decentralized Web. Available as [services.photoprism](options.html#opt-services.photoprism.enable).

- [autosuspend](https://github.com/languitar/autosuspend), a python daemon that suspends a system if certain conditions are met, or not met.

## Backward Incompatibilities {#sec-release-23.05-incompatibilities}

<!-- To avoid merge conflicts, consider adding your item at an arbitrary place in the list instead. -->

- `carnix` and `cratesIO` has been removed due to being unmaintained, use alternatives such as [naersk](https://github.com/nix-community/naersk) and [crate2nix](https://github.com/kolloch/crate2nix) instead.

- `checkInputs` have been renamed to `nativeCheckInputs`, because they behave the same as `nativeBuildInputs` when `doCheck` is set. `checkInputs` now denote a new type of dependencies, added to `buildInputs` when `doCheck` is set. As a rule of thumb, `nativeCheckInputs` are tools on `$PATH` used during the tests, and `checkInputs` are libraries which are linked to executables built as part of the tests. Similarly, `installCheckInputs` are renamed to `nativeInstallCheckInputs`, corresponding to `nativeBuildInputs`, and `installCheckInputs` are a new type of dependencies added to `buildInputs` when `doInstallCheck` is set. (Note that this change will not cause breakage to derivations with `strictDeps` unset, which are most packages except python, rust and go packages).

- `borgbackup` module now has an option for inhibiting system sleep while backups are running, defaulting to off (not inhibiting sleep), available as [`services.borgbackup.jobs.<name>.inhibitsSleep`](#opt-services.borgbackup.jobs._name_.inhibitsSleep).

- `podman` now uses the `netavark` network stack. Users will need to delete all of their local containers, images, volumes, etc, by running `podman system reset --force` once before upgrading their systems.

- `git-bug` has been updated to at least version 0.8.0, which includes backwards incompatible changes. The `git-bug-migration` package can be used to upgrade existing repositories.

- The EC2 image module no longer fetches instance metadata in stage-1. This results in a significantly smaller initramfs, since network drivers no longer need to be included, and faster boots, since metadata fetching can happen in parallel with startup of other services.
  This breaks services which rely on metadata being present by the time stage-2 is entered. Anything which reads EC2 metadata from `/etc/ec2-metadata` should now have an `after` dependency on `fetch-ec2-metadata.service`

- `minio` removed support for its legacy filesystem backend in [RELEASE.2022-10-29T06-21-33Z](https://github.com/minio/minio/releases/tag/RELEASE.2022-10-29T06-21-33Z). This means if your storage was created with the old format, minio will no longer start. Unfortunately minio doesn't provide a an automatic migration, they only provide [instructions how to manually convert the node](https://min.io/docs/minio/windows/operations/install-deploy-manage/migrate-fs-gateway.html). To facilitate this migration we keep around the last version that still supports the old filesystem backend as `minio_legacy_fs`. Use it via `services.minio.package = minio_legacy_fs;` to export your data before switching to the new version. See the corresponding [issue](https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/issues/199318) for more details.

- `services.sourcehut.dispatch` and the corresponding package (`sourcehut.dispatchsrht`) have been removed due to [upstream deprecation](https://sourcehut.org/blog/2022-08-01-dispatch-deprecation-plans/).

- The [services.snapserver.openFirewall](#opt-services.snapserver.openFirewall) module option default value has been changed from `true` to `false`. You will need to explicitly set this option to `true`, or configure your firewall.

- The [services.tmate-ssh-server.openFirewall](#opt-services.tmate-ssh-server.openFirewall) module option default value has been changed from `true` to `false`. You will need to explicitly set this option to `true`, or configure your firewall.

- The [services.unifi-video.openFirewall](#opt-services.unifi-video.openFirewall) module option default value has been changed from `true` to `false`. You will need to explicitly set this option to `true`, or configure your firewall.

- Kime has been updated from 2.5.6 to 3.0.2 and the `i18n.inputMethod.kime.config` option has been removed. Users should use `daemonModules`, `iconColor`, and `extraConfig` options under `i18n.inputMethod.kime` instead.

- `llvmPackages_rocm.llvm` will not contain `clang` or `compiler-rt`. `llvmPackages_rocm.clang` will not contain `llvm`. `llvmPackages_rocm.clangNoCompilerRt` has been removed in favor of using `llvmPackages_rocm.clang-unwrapped`.

- The EC2 image module previously detected and automatically mounted ext3-formatted instance store devices and partitions in stage-1 (initramfs), storing `/tmp` on the first discovered device. This behaviour, which only catered to very specific use cases and could not be disabled, has been removed. Users relying on this should provide their own implementation, and probably use ext4 and perform the mount in stage-2.

- `teleport` has been upgraded to major version 11. Please see upstream [upgrade instructions](https://goteleport.com/docs/setup/operations/upgrading/) and [release notes](https://goteleport.com/docs/changelog/#1100).

- The EC2 image module previously detected and activated swap-formatted instance store devices and partitions in stage-1 (initramfs). This behaviour has been removed. Users relying on this should provide their own implementation.

- Qt 5.12 and 5.14 have been removed, as the corresponding branches have been EOL upstream for a long time. This affected under 10 packages in nixpkgs, largely unmaintained upstream as well, however, out-of-tree package expressions may need to be updated manually.

- In `mastodon` it is now necessary to specify location of file with `PostgreSQL` database password. In `services.mastodon.database.passwordFile` parameter default value `/var/lib/mastodon/secrets/db-password` has been changed to `null`.

- The `--target-host` and `--build-host` options of `nixos-rebuild` no longer treat the `localhost` value specially – to build on/deploy to local machine, omit the relevant flag.

- The `nix.readOnlyStore` option has been renamed to `boot.readOnlyNixStore` to clarify that it configures the NixOS boot process, not the Nix daemon.

- Deprecated `xlibsWrapper` transitional package has been removed in favour of direct use of its constitutents: `xorg.libX11`, `freetype` and others.

- .NET 5.0 was removed due to being end-of-life, use a newer, supported .NET version - https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/platform/support/policy/dotnet-core

## Other Notable Changes {#sec-release-23.05-notable-changes}

<!-- To avoid merge conflicts, consider adding your item at an arbitrary place in the list instead. -->

- `vim_configurable` has been renamed to `vim-full` to avoid confusion: `vim-full`'s build-time features are configurable, but both `vim` and `vim-full` are _customizable_ (in the sense of user configuration, like vimrc).

- The module for the application firewall `opensnitch` got the ability to configure rules. Available as [services.opensnitch.rules](#opt-services.opensnitch.rules)

- The module `usbmuxd` now has the ability to change the package used by the daemon. In case you're experiencing issues with `usbmuxd` you can try an alternative program like `usbmuxd2`. Available as [services.usbmuxd.package](#opt-services.usbmuxd.package)

- A few openssh options have been moved from extraConfig to the new freeform option `settings` and renamed as follow: `services.openssh.kbdInteractiveAuthentication` to `services.openssh.settings.KbdInteractiveAuthentication`, `services.openssh.passwordAuthentication` to `services.openssh.settings.PasswordAuthentication`, `services.openssh.useDns` to `services.openssh.settings.UseDns`, `services.openssh.permitRootLogin` to `services.openssh.settings.PermitRootLogin`, `services.openssh.logLevel` to `services.openssh.settings.LogLevel`.

- `services.mastodon` gained a tootctl wrapped named `mastodon-tootctl` similar to `nextcloud-occ` which can be executed from any user and switches to the configured mastodon user with sudo and sources the environment variables.

- DocBook option documentation, which has been deprecated since 22.11, will now cause a warning when documentation is built. Out-of-tree modules should migrate to using CommonMark documentation as outlined in [](#sec-option-declarations) to silence this warning.

  DocBook option documentation support will be removed in the next release and CommonMark will become the default. DocBook option documentation that has not been migrated until then will no longer render properly or cause errors.

- The `dnsmasq` service now takes configuration via the
  `services.dnsmasq.settings` attribute set. The option
  `services.dnsmasq.extraConfig` will be deprecated when NixOS 22.11 reaches
  end of life.

- The `dokuwiki` service now takes configuration via the `services.dokuwiki.sites.<name>.settings` attribute set, `extraConfig` is deprecated and will be removed.
  The `{aclUse,superUser,disableActions}` attributes have been renamed, `pluginsConfig` now also accepts an attribute set of booleans, passing plain PHP is deprecated.
  Same applies to `acl` which now also accepts structured settings.

- The `wordpress` service now takes configuration via the `services.wordpress.sites.<name>.settings` attribute set, `extraConfig` is still available to append  additional text to `wp-config.php`.

- To reduce closure size in `nixos/modules/profiles/minimal.nix` profile disabled installation documentations and manuals. Also disabled `logrotate` and `udisks2` services.

- The minimal ISO image now uses the `nixos/modules/profiles/minimal.nix` profile.

- `mastodon` now supports connection to a remote `PostgreSQL` database.

- `services.peertube` now requires you to specify the secret file `secrets.secretsFile`. It can be generated by running `openssl rand -hex 32`.
  Before upgrading, read the release notes for PeerTube:
    - [Release v5.0.0](https://github.com/Chocobozzz/PeerTube/releases/tag/v5.0.0)

  And backup your data.

- `services.chronyd` is now started with additional systemd sandbox/hardening options for better security.

- `services.dhcpcd` service now don't solicit or accept IPv6 Router Advertisements on interfaces that use static IPv6 addresses.

- The module `services.headscale` was refactored to be compliant with [RFC 0042](https://github.com/NixOS/rfcs/blob/master/rfcs/0042-config-option.md). To be precise, this means that the following things have changed:

  - Most settings has been migrated under [services.headscale.settings](#opt-services.headscale.settings) which is an attribute-set that
    will be converted into headscale's YAML config format. This means that the configuration from
    [headscale's example configuration](https://github.com/juanfont/headscale/blob/main/config-example.yaml)
    can be directly written as attribute-set in Nix within this option.

- `nixos/lib/make-disk-image.nix` can now mutate EFI variables, run user-provided EFI firmware or variable templates. This is now extensively documented in the NixOS manual.

- `services.grafana` listens only on localhost by default again. This was changed to upstreams default of `0.0.0.0` by accident in the freeform setting conversion.

- A new `virtualisation.rosetta` module was added to allow running `x86_64` binaries through [Rosetta](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/apple-silicon/about-the-rosetta-translation-environment) inside virtualised NixOS guests on Apple silicon. This feature works by default with the [UTM](https://docs.getutm.app/) virtualisation [package](https://search.nixos.org/packages?channel=unstable&show=utm&from=0&size=1&sort=relevance&type=packages&query=utm).

- The new option `users.motdFile` allows configuring a Message Of The Day that can be updated dynamically.

- The `root` package is now built with the `"-Dgnuinstall=ON"` CMake flag, making the output conform the `bin` `lib` `share` layout. In this layout, `tutorials` is under `share/doc/ROOT/`; `cmake`, `font`, `icons`, `js` and `macro` under `share/root`; `Makefile.comp` and `Makefile.config` under `etc/root`.

- Enabling global redirect in `services.nginx.virtualHosts` now allows one to add exceptions with the `locations` option.

- A new option `recommendedBrotliSettings` has been added to `services.nginx`. Learn more about compression in Brotli format [here](https://github.com/google/ngx_brotli/blob/master/README.md).

- [Garage](https://garagehq.deuxfleurs.fr/) version is based on [system.stateVersion](options.html#opt-system.stateVersion), existing installations will keep using version 0.7. New installations will use version 0.8. In order to upgrade a Garage cluster, please follow [upstream instructions](https://garagehq.deuxfleurs.fr/documentation/cookbook/upgrading/) and force [services.garage.package](options.html#opt-services.garage.package) or upgrade accordingly [system.stateVersion](options.html#opt-system.stateVersion).

- `hip` has been separated into `hip`, `hip-common` and `hipcc`.

- Resilio sync secret keys can now be provided using a secrets file at runtime, preventing these secrets from ending up in the Nix store.

- The `firewall` and `nat` module now has a nftables based implementation. Enable `networking.nftables` to use it.

- The `services.fwupd` module now allows arbitrary daemon settings to be configured in a structured manner ([`services.fwupd.daemonSettings`](#opt-services.fwupd.daemonSettings)).

- The `unifi-poller` package and corresponding NixOS module have been renamed to `unpoller` to match upstream.

- The new option `services.tailscale.useRoutingFeatures` controls various settings for using Tailscale features like exit nodes and subnet routers. If you wish to use your machine as an exit node, you can set this setting to `server`, otherwise if you wish to use an exit node you can set this setting to `client`. The strict RPF warning has been removed as the RPF will be loosened automatically based on the value of this setting.

- [Xastir](https://xastir.org/index.php/Main_Page) can now access AX.25 interfaces via the `libax25` package.

- `nixos-version` now accepts `--configuration-revision` to display more information about the current generation revision

- The option `services.nomad.extraSettingsPlugins` has been fixed to allow more than one plugin in the path.
