# Release 21.11 (“?”, 2021.11/??) {#sec-release-21.11}

In addition to numerous new and upgraded packages, this release has the following highlights:

- Support is planned until the end of June 2022, handing over to 22.05.

## Highlights {#sec-release-21.11-highlights}

- PHP now defaults to PHP 8.0, updated from 7.4.
- kOps now defaults to 1.21.0, which uses containerd as the default runtime.

- `python3` now defaults to Python 3.9, updated from Python 3.8.

- PostgreSQL now defaults to major version 13.

## New Services {#sec-release-21.11-new-services}

- [btrbk](https://digint.ch/btrbk/index.html), a backup tool for btrfs subvolumes, taking advantage of btrfs specific capabilities to create atomic snapshots and transfer them incrementally to your backup locations. Available as [services.btrbk](options.html#opt-services.brtbk.instances).

- [clipcat](https://github.com/xrelkd/clipcat/), an X11 clipboard manager written in Rust. Available at [services.clipcat](options.html#o
pt-services.clipcat.enable).

- [geoipupdate](https://github.com/maxmind/geoipupdate), a GeoIP database updater from MaxMind. Available as [services.geoipupdate](options.html#opt-services.geoipupdate.enable).

- [Kea](https://www.isc.org/kea/), ISCs 2nd generation DHCP and DDNS server suite. Available at [services.kea](options.html#opt-services.kea).

- [sourcehut](https://sr.ht), a collection of tools useful for software development. Available as [services.sourcehut](options.html#opt-services.sourcehut.enable).

- [ucarp](https://download.pureftpd.org/pub/ucarp/README), an userspace implementation of the Common Address Redundancy Protocol (CARP). Available as [networking.ucarp](options.html#opt-networking.ucarp.enable).

- Users of flashrom should migrate to [programs.flashrom.enable](options.html#opt-programs.flashrom.enable) and add themselves to the `flashrom` group to be able to access programmers supported by flashrom.

- [vikunja](https://vikunja.io), a to-do list app. Available as [services.vikunja](#opt-services.vikunja.enable).

- [snapraid](https://www.snapraid.it/), a backup program for disk arrays.
  Available as [snapraid](#opt-snapraid.enable).

- [Hockeypuck](https://github.com/hockeypuck/hockeypuck), a OpenPGP Key Server. Available as [services.hockeypuck](#opt-services.hockeypuck.enable).

- [buildkite-agent-metrics](https://github.com/buildkite/buildkite-agent-metrics), a command-line tool for collecting Buildkite agent metrics, now has a Prometheus exporter available as [services.prometheus.exporters.buildkite-agent](#opt-services.prometheus.exporters.buildkite-agent.enable).

- [influxdb-exporter](https://github.com/prometheus/influxdb_exporter) a Prometheus exporter that exports metrics received on an InfluxDB compatible endpoint is now available as [services.prometheus.exporters.influxdb](#opt-services.prometheus.exporters.influxdb.enable).

- [mx-puppet-discord](https://github.com/matrix-discord/mx-puppet-discord), a discord puppeting bridge for matrix. Available as [services.mx-puppet-discord](#opt-services.mx-puppet-discord.enable).

- [MeshCentral](https://www.meshcommander.com/meshcentral2/overview), a remote administration service ("TeamViewer but self-hosted and with more features") is now available with a package and a module: [services.meshcentral.enable](#opt-services.meshcentral.enable)

- [moonraker](https://github.com/Arksine/moonraker), an API web server for Klipper.
  Available as [moonraker](#opt-services.moonraker.enable).

## Backward Incompatibilities {#sec-release-21.11-incompatibilities}

- The `staticjinja` package has been upgraded from 1.0.4 to 3.0.1

- `services.geoip-updater` was broken and has been replaced by [services.geoipupdate](options.html#opt-services.geoipupdate.enable).

- PHP 7.3 is no longer supported due to upstream not supporting this version for the entire lifecycle of the 21.11 release.

- Those making use of `buildBazelPackage` will need to regenerate the fetch hashes (preferred), or set `fetchConfigured = false;`.

- `consul` was upgraded to a new major release with breaking changes, see [upstream changelog](https://github.com/hashicorp/consul/releases/tag/v1.10.0).

- fsharp41 has been removed in preference to use the latest dotnet-sdk

- The following F#-related packages have been removed for being unmaintaned. Please use `fetchNuGet` for specific packages.

  - ExtCore
  - Fake
  - Fantomas
  - FsCheck
  - FsCheck262
  - FsCheckNunit
  - FSharpAutoComplete
  - FSharpCompilerCodeDom
  - FSharpCompilerService
  - FSharpCompilerTools
  - FSharpCore302
  - FSharpCore3125
  - FSharpCore4001
  - FSharpCore4117
  - FSharpData
  - FSharpData225
  - FSharpDataSQLProvider
  - FSharpFormatting
  - FsLexYacc
  - FsLexYacc706
  - FsLexYaccRuntime
  - FsPickler
  - FsUnit
  - Projekt
  - Suave
  - UnionArgParser
  - ExcelDnaRegistration
  - MathNetNumerics

- `programs.x2goserver` is now `services.x2goserver`

- The following dotnet-related packages have been removed for being unmaintaned. Please use `fetchNuGet` for specific packages.
  - Autofac
  - SystemValueTuple
  - MicrosoftDiaSymReader
  - MicrosoftDiaSymReaderPortablePdb
  - SystemCollectionsImmutable
  - SystemCollectionsImmutable131
  - SystemReflectionMetadata
  - NUnit350
  - Deedle
  - ExcelDna
  - GitVersionTree
  - NDeskOptions

* The `antlr` package now defaults to the 4.x release instead of the
  old 2.7.7 version.

* The `pulseeffects` package updated to [version 4.x](https://github.com/wwmm/easyeffects/releases/tag/v6.0.0) and renamed to `easyeffects`.

* The `libwnck` package now defaults to the 3.x release instead of the
  old 2.31.0 version.

* The `bitwarden_rs` packages and modules were renamed to `vaultwarden`
  [following upstream](https://github.com/dani-garcia/vaultwarden/discussions/1642). More specifically,

  * `pkgs.bitwarden_rs`, `pkgs.bitwarden_rs-sqlite`, `pkgs.bitwarden_rs-mysql` and
    `pkgs.bitwarden_rs-postgresql` were renamed to `pkgs.vaultwarden`, `pkgs.vaultwarden-sqlite`,
    `pkgs.vaultwarden-mysql` and `pkgs.vaultwarden-postgresql`, respectively.
    * Old names are preserved as aliases for backwards compatibility, but may be removed in the future.
    * The `bitwarden_rs` executable was also renamed to `vaultwarden` in all packages.

  * `pkgs.bitwarden_rs-vault` was renamed to `pkgs.vaultwarden-vault`.
    * `pkgs.bitwarden_rs-vault` is preserved as an alias for backwards compatibility, but may be removed in the future.
    * The static files were moved from `/usr/share/bitwarden_rs` to `/usr/share/vaultwarden`.

  * The `services.bitwarden_rs` config module was renamed to `services.vaultwarden`.
    * `services.bitwarden_rs` is preserved as an alias for backwards compatibility, but may be removed in the future.

  * `systemd.services.bitwarden_rs`, `systemd.services.backup-bitwarden_rs` and `systemd.timers.backup-bitwarden_rs`
    were renamed to `systemd.services.vaultwarden`, `systemd.services.backup-vaultwarden` and
    `systemd.timers.backup-vaultwarden`, respectively.
    * Old names are preserved as aliases for backwards compatibility, but may be removed in the future.

  * `users.users.bitwarden_rs` and `users.groups.bitwarden_rs` were renamed to `users.users.vaultwarden` and
    `users.groups.vaultwarden`, respectively.

  * The data directory remains located at `/var/lib/bitwarden_rs`, for backwards compatibility.

- `yggdrasil` was upgraded to a new major release with breaking changes, see [upstream changelog](https://github.com/yggdrasil-network/yggdrasil-go/releases/tag/v0.4.0).

- `icingaweb2` was upgraded to a new release which requires a manual database upgrade, see [upstream changelog](https://github.com/Icinga/icingaweb2/releases/tag/v2.9.0).

- The `isabelle` package has been upgraded from 2020 to 2021

- the `mingw-64` package has been upgraded from 6.0.0 to 9.0.0

- `tt-rss` was upgraded to the commit on 2021-06-21, which has breaking changes. If you use `services.tt-rss.extraConfig` you should migrate to the `putenv`-style configuration. See [this Discourse post](https://community.tt-rss.org/t/rip-config-php-hello-classes-config-php/4337) in the tt-rss forums for more details.

- The following Visual Studio Code extensions were renamed to keep the naming convention uniform.
  - `bbenoist.Nix` -> `bbenoist.nix`
  - `CoenraadS.bracket-pair-colorizer` -> `coenraads.bracket-pair-colorizer`
  - `golang.Go` -> `golang.go`

- `services.uptimed` now uses `/var/lib/uptimed` as its stateDirectory instead of `/var/spool/uptimed`. Make sure to move all files to the new directory.

- Deprecated package aliases in `emacs.pkgs.*` have been removed. These aliases were remnants of the old Emacs package infrastructure. We now use exact upstream names wherever possible.

- `programs.neovim.runtime` switched to a `linkFarm` internally, making it impossible to use wildcards in the `source` argument.

- The `openrazer` and `openrazer-daemon` packages as well as the `hardware.openrazer` module now require users to be members of the `openrazer` group instead of `plugdev`. With this change, users no longer need be granted the entire set of `plugdev` group permissions, which can include permissions other than those required by `openrazer`. This is desirable from a security point of view. The setting [`harware.openrazer.users`](options.html#opt-services.hardware.openrazer.users) can be used to add users to the `openrazer` group.

- The `yambar` package has been split into `yambar` and `yambar-wayland`, corresponding to the xorg and wayland backend respectively. Please switch to `yambar-wayland` if you are on wayland.

## Other Notable Changes {#sec-release-21.11-notable-changes}

- The setting [`services.openssh.logLevel`](options.html#opt-services.openssh.logLevel) `"VERBOSE"` `"INFO"`. This brings NixOS in line with upstream and other Linux distributions, and reduces log spam on servers due to bruteforcing botnets.

  However, if [`services.fail2ban.enable`](options.html#opt-services.fail2ban.enable) is `true`, the `fail2ban` will override the verbosity to `"VERBOSE"`, so that `fail2ban` can observe the failed login attempts from the SSH logs.

- Sway: The terminal emulator `rxvt-unicode` is no longer installed by default via `programs.sway.extraPackages`. The current default configuration uses `alacritty` (and soon `foot`) so this is only an issue when using a customized configuration and not installing `rxvt-unicode` explicitly.

- `python3` now defaults to Python 3.9. Python 3.9 introduces many deprecation warnings, please look at the [What's New In Python 3.9 post](https://docs.python.org/3/whatsnew/3.9.html) for more information.

- The `claws-mail` package now references the new GTK+ 3 release branch, major version 4. To use the GTK+ 2 releases, one can install the `claws-mail-gtk2` package.

- The wordpress module provides a new interface which allows to use different webservers with the new option [`services.wordpress.webserver`](options.html#opt-services.wordpress.webserver).  Currently `httpd` and `nginx` are supported. The definitions of wordpress sites should now be set in [`services.wordpress.sites`](options.html#opt-services.wordpress.sites).

  Sites definitions that use the old interface are automatically migrated in the new option. This backward compatibility will be removed in 22.05.

- The order of NSS (host) modules has been brought in line with upstream
  recommendations:

  - The `myhostname` module is placed before the `resolve` (optional) and `dns`
    entries, but after `file` (to allow overriding via `/etc/hosts` /
    `networking.extraHosts`, and prevent ISPs with catchall-DNS resolvers from
    hijacking `.localhost` domains)
  - The `mymachines` module, which provides hostname resolution for local
    containers (registered with `systemd-machined`) is placed to the front, to
    make sure its mappings are preferred over other resolvers.
  - If systemd-networkd is enabled, the `resolve` module is placed before
    `files` and `myhostname`, as it provides the same logic internally, with
    caching.
  - The `mdns(_minimal)` module has been updated to the new priorities.

  If you use your own NSS host modules, make sure to update your priorities
  according to these rules:

  - NSS modules which should be queried before `resolved` DNS resolution should
    use mkBefore.
  - NSS modules which should be queried after `resolved`, `files` and
    `myhostname`, but before `dns` should use the default priority
  - NSS modules which should come after `dns` should use mkAfter.

- The [networking.wireless.iwd](options.html#opt-networking.wireless.iwd.enable) module has a new [networking.wireless.iwd.settings](options.html#opt-networking.wireless.iwd.settings) option.

- The [services.syncoid.enable](options.html#opt-services.syncoid.enable) module now properly drops ZFS permissions after usage. Before it delegated permissions to whole pools instead of datasets and didn't clean up after execution. You can manually look this up for your pools by running `zfs allow your-pool-name` and use `zfs unallow syncoid your-pool-name` to clean this up.

- Zfs: `latestCompatibleLinuxPackages` is now exported on the zfs package. One can use `boot.kernelPackages = config.boot.zfs.package.latestCompatibleLinuxPackages;` to always track the latest compatible kernel with a given version of zfs.
