This page is a work in progress.

= Overview =

Most of the features seem to be working with Linux 2.6.32.

== Hardware ==

* Ethernet: Attansic Technology Corp. Device 1063 (rev c0)
* Wireless: Intel Corporation Wifi Link 100 Series
* Bluetooth: 
* Sound: Realtek ALC269
* Video: nVidia GeForce GT 240M
* Video RAM: 1GB DDR3
* CPU: Core i7 720 QM (4 core, 2 threads per core)
* RAM: 4 GB
* HDD: 2*  320 GB, 5200 rpm.
* Fingerprint Sensor.

== Support ==

* Ethernet: Yes.
* Wireless: Yes.
* Bluetooth: Yes.
* Sound: Yes.
* Video: Yes. (dual screen working fine)
* Software Raid: Yes.
* Keyboard: some Function (Fn) keys are not recognized / mapped correctly.
* Fingerprint Sensor: Not tested. (listed by lshal)

== Tests ==

* Video:
** Maximal Resolution: 1366x768
** glxgears: 1859.8 FPS @ 1366x768

= Configuration =

You can see the configuration file specific to this computer at [https://svn.nixos.org/repos/nix/configurations/trunk/computer/asus/m60j/jx041v.nix <code>configurations/computer/asus/m60j/jx041v.nix</code>]

= Problems & Solutions =

== No Ethernet ==

This problem appear if you are using an old kernel.

<pre>[root@nixos:]# lspci -v | sed -n '/Ethernet/ { :loop p; n; s/^$//; T loop; q}'
07:00.0 Ethernet controller: Attansic Technology Corp. Device 1063 (rev c0)
        ...
        Kernel driver in use: atl1c
        Kernel modules: atl1c
</pre>

While searching on the web you find that this ethernet device need the kernel module <code>atl1e</code> instead of <code>atl1c</code>.  The following sources explain how to unpack & compile & install such module on usual distributions.  As we are on a NixOS, things are a bit different.

To follow the instruction you need to find a way to copy the module sources of AR81Family-linux-v1.0.0.10.tar.gz ([http://www.backtrack.it/~emgent/hackstuff/Attansic/ http://www.backtrack.it/~emgent/hackstuff/Attansic/]) on the targeted device.

<pre>
# avoid messing up your term
[root@nixos:]# initctl stop dhclient
# add dependencies in the environment
[root@nixos:]# nix-env -i gcc gnumake
[root@nixos:]# ln -s /nix/store/*-linux-$(uname -r)/lib /lib
# unpack & compile
[root@nixos:]# mkdir /tmp/AR81Family-linux
[root@nixos:]# cp .../AR81Family-linux-v1.0.0.10.tar.gz .
[root@nixos:]# yes y | tar xzf AR81Family-linux-v1.0.0.10.tar.gz
[root@nixos:]# cd src
[root@nixos:]# make
# Replace the current module
[root@nixos:]# rmmod atl1c
[root@nixos:]# modprobe /tmp/AR81Family-linux/src/atl1e.ko
# start fetching an IP address.
[root@nixos:]# initctl start dhclient
</pre>

At the end, you end up with a working interface and the following result:

<pre>[root@nixos:]# lspci -v | sed -n '/Ethernet/ { :loop p; n; s/^$//; T loop; q}'
07:00.0 Ethernet controller: Attansic Technology Corp. Device 1063 (rev c0)
        ...
        Kernel driver in use: atheros_eth
        Kernel modules: atl1c
</pre>

Many reference to AR81Family-linux-v1.0.1.0.tar.gz can be found on the web, but the manufacturer links are broken.

Sources:
* [http://platonic.techfiz.info/2009/10/25/ethernet-controller-attansic-technology-corp-device-1063-on-ubuntu/ http://platonic.techfiz.info/2009/10/25/ethernet-controller-attansic-technology-corp-device-1063-on-ubuntu/]

== Grub ==

* Changing the boot sequence in the BIOS is changing the apparent mapping of hard-drives.  Thus <code>hd0</code> and <code>hd1</code> are inverted in GRUB 2.
* The MBR is not restored by the recovery CDs.

[[Category:Installation]]
[[Category:Hardware]]
[[Category:Laptops]]
