nixos/doc/manual/installation/obtaining.chapter.md, before:

# Obtaining NixOS {#sec-obtaining}

NixOS ISO images can be downloaded from the [NixOS download
page](https://nixos.org/nixos/download.html). There are a number of
installation options. If you happen to have an optical drive and a spare
CD, burning the image to CD and booting from that is probably the
easiest option. Most people will need to prepare a USB stick to boot
from. [](#sec-booting-from-usb) describes the preferred method to
prepare a USB stick. A number of alternative methods are presented in
the [NixOS Wiki](https://nixos.wiki/wiki/NixOS_Installation_Guide#Making_the_installation_media).

As an alternative to installing NixOS yourself, you can get a running
NixOS system through several other means:

-   Using virtual appliances in Open Virtualization Format (OVF) that
    can be imported into VirtualBox. These are available from the [NixOS
    download page](https://nixos.org/nixos/download.html).

-   Using AMIs for Amazon's EC2. To find one for your region and
    instance type, please refer to the [list of most recent
    AMIs](https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/blob/master/nixos/modules/virtualisation/ec2-amis.nix).

-   Using NixOps, the NixOS-based cloud deployment tool, which allows
    you to provision VirtualBox and EC2 NixOS instances from declarative
    specifications. Check out the [NixOps
    homepage](https://nixos.org/nixops) for details.

Commit message:

nixos/doc: improve install instructions
- Update download URLs
- Replace "USB stick"/"USB Drive" with "USB flash drive" as that seem more correct

  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/USB_flash_drive
  https://elementary.io/docs/installation#choose-operating-system

- Don't mention CD as easiest option anymore,
  as all modern systems should be able to boot from USB,
  but many don't have a CD drive. Burning CDs is also usually wasteful as you
  can't burn them again.
- Remove link to NixOS Wiki (Making_the_installation_media) as it is not needed
- Add Etcher and USBImager as graphical tools to create install drive
- Make dd command consistent and use block size of 4 MB for faster flashing
- More consistent text
- Add instructions for "Booting from the install medium"

  Inspired by https://github.com/elementary/website/blob/9a91b0f4956b059db02122fbc738c4c067e033a7/docs/installation.md#booting-from-the-install-drive-booting-from-the-installation-medium-clear-float-2

- Add instructions for "Graphical Installation"
- Restructure headings and anchors for "Manual Installation"
- Adding legacy anchors for "Manual Installation" to not break links

Co-authored-by: j-k <dev@j-k.io>
Co-authored-by: Sandro <sandro.jaeckel@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Robert Schütz <github@dotlambda.de>
Co-authored-by: Jörg Thalheim <Mic92@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Thiago Kenji Okada <thiagokokada@gmail.com>

nixos/doc/manual/installation/obtaining.chapter.md, after:

# Obtaining NixOS {#sec-obtaining}

NixOS ISO images can be downloaded from the [NixOS download
page](https://nixos.org/download.html#nixos-iso). Follow the instructions in
[](#sec-booting-from-usb) to create a bootable USB flash drive.

If you have a very old system that can't boot from USB, you can burn the image
to an empty CD. NixOS might not work very well on such systems.

As an alternative to installing NixOS yourself, you can get a running
NixOS system through several other means:

-   Using virtual appliances in Open Virtualization Format (OVF) that
    can be imported into VirtualBox. These are available from the [NixOS
    download page](https://nixos.org/download.html#nixos-virtualbox).

-   Using AMIs for Amazon's EC2. To find one for your region, please refer
    to the [download page](https://nixos.org/download.html#nixos-amazon).

-   Using NixOps, the NixOS-based cloud deployment tool, which allows
    you to provision VirtualBox and EC2 NixOS instances from declarative
    specifications. Check out the [NixOps
    homepage](https://nixos.org/nixops) for details.
