# Nixpkgs 26.05 ("Yarara", 2026.05/??) {#sec-nixpkgs-release-26.05}

## Highlights {#sec-nixpkgs-release-26.05-highlights}
<!-- To avoid merge conflicts, consider adding your item at an arbitrary place in the list instead. -->

- GCC has been updated from GCC 14 to GCC 15.
  This introduces some backwards incompatible changes; Refer to the [upstream porting guide](https://gcc.gnu.org/gcc-15/porting_to.html) for details.

- Node.js default version has been updated from 22 LTS to 24 LTS.
  This introduces some breaking changes; Refer to the [upstream migration article](https://nodejs.org/en/blog/migrations/v22-to-v24) for details.

- Ruby default version has been updated from 3.3 to 3.4.
  Refer to the [upstream release announcement](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/news/2024/12/25/ruby-3-4-0-released/) for details.

- []{#x86_64-darwin-26.05}

  **This will be the last release of Nixpkgs to support `x86_64-darwin`.**
  Platform support will be maintained and binaries built until Nixpkgs 26.05 goes out of support at the end of 2026.
  For 26.11, due to Apple’s deprecation of the platform and limited build infrastructure and developer time, we will no longer build packages for `x86_64-darwin` or support building them from source.

  By the time of 26.11’s release, Homebrew will offer only limited [Tier 3](https://docs.brew.sh/Support-Tiers#tier-3) support for the platform, but MacPorts will likely continue to support it for a long time.
  We also recommend users consider installing NixOS, which should continue to run on essentially all Intel Macs, especially after Apple stops security support for macOS 26 in 2028.

  A warning will be displayed for `x86_64-darwin` users; you can set [](#opt-allowDeprecatedx86_64Darwin) in the [Nixpkgs configuration](https://nixos.org/manual/nixpkgs/stable/#chap-packageconfig) to silence it.
  The {file}`~/.config/nixpkgs/config.nix` file will not work for users of flakes, who can instead replace `nixpkgs.legacyPackages.x86_64-darwin` with

  ```nix
  import nixpkgs {
    system = "x86_64-darwin";
    config.allowDeprecatedx86_64Darwin = true;
  }
  ```

  nix-darwin users can set [`nixpkgs.config.allowDeprecatedx86_64Darwin`](https://nix-darwin.github.io/nix-darwin/manual/index.html#opt-nixpkgs.config) in their system configurations.

- The Factor programming language has been updated to Version 0.101 bringing various improvements to UI rendering and HiDPI support as well as support for Unicode 17.0.0.
  Starting from Version 0.100, the Factor VM is compiled with Clang.

  This brings along some backwards compatibility issues in the language further detailed [here](https://re.factorcode.org/2025/12/factor-0-101-now-available.html).
  Additionally, the FUEL Emacs module is no longer part of the `factor-lang` package.
  It is part of the MELPA package set for a while already and must be taken from there.
  This *does not affect* `factor-lang` packages Version 0.99 and 0.100.
  Using the official MELPA package now puts the burden of providing the path to `/lib/factor` in `factor-root-dir` on the user.
  Make sure to use the `extraVocabs` package attribute to compose a special vocabulary tree if necessary.
  You can refer to the generated tree of vocabulary roots via the newly exposed `vocabTree` attribute, as described in the [documentation](#ssec-factor-dev-env).

- Nixpkgs configuration, specified for NixOS using `nixpkgs.config`, or using the `config` argument when importing nixpkgs, has learned to accept a `lib` argument as well as `pkgs`, which allows the configuration to be computed without depending on the `pkgs` fixed point.  If you are referencing licenses in `lib.licenses` by having this configuration be a function taking a `pkgs` arg, you may wish to change to using `lib` for faster computation and to avoid infinite recursion errors if pkgs depends on parts of the computed configuration in future.

    For example, if you currently have configuration that looks like this:

        { pkgs, ... }:
        {
          allowlistedLicenses = [ pkgs.lib.licenses.nasa13 ];
          blocklistedLicenses = with pkgs.lib.licenses; [ gpl3Only gpl3Plus ];
        }

    You may wish to update it to something like this:

        { lib, ... }:
        {
          allowlistedLicenses = [ lib.licenses.nasa13 ];
          blocklistedLicenses = with lib.licenses; [ gpl3Only gpl3Plus ];
        }

    Or, if you need configuration that works with both 26.05 and 25.11:

        { pkgs, lib ? pkgs.lib, ... }:
        {
          allowlistedLicenses = [ lib.licenses.nasa13 ];
          blocklistedLicenses = with lib.licenses; [ gpl3Only gpl3Plus ];
        }

## Backward Incompatibilities {#sec-nixpkgs-release-26.05-incompatibilities}

<!-- To avoid merge conflicts, consider adding your item at an arbitrary place in the list instead. -->

- The `nodePackages` package set has been removed entirely from nixpkgs. This package set was created to ease the maintenance burden of maintaining lots of
  NodeJS-based packages within nixpkgs, but became a burden itself. Over the past several releases, there has been a focus on removing it in favor of the more modern nixpkgs packaging strategies.
  After a long time, this package set has been deprecated and removed. If you are using its package set in your own config, please use the top-level packages instead.(i.e `pkgs.package-name` instead of `pkgs.nodePackages.package-name`).

- Note that the above `nodePackages` removal also coincides with the removal of `node2nix` and its tooling, which have been deprecated for a long time.

- `xfce.mkXfceDerivation` has been deprecated (i.e. conditioned behind `nixpkgs.config.allowAliases`)
  and will be removed in NixOS 26.11, please use `stdenv.mkDerivation` directly. You can migrate by
  adding `pkg-config`, `xfce4-dev-tools`, and `wrapGAppsHook3` to your `nativeBuildInputs` and
  `--enable-maintainer-mode` to your `configureFlags`.

- `albert` has been updated to the version 34.0.5. This release redesigns the query system to support stateful asynchronous handlers and infinite scrolling, and adds internationalized tokenization.
  This update introduces several breaking changes: the Python plugin interface is now v5.0, the `PATH` plugin has been renamed to `Commandline`, and the QStylesheets-based widgets box model frontend has been removed.
  For more information read the [changelog for 34.0.0](https://albertlauncher.github.io/2026/01/19/albert-v34.0.0-released/).

- `sing-box` has been updated to 1.13.0, which has removed some deprecated options.  See [upstream documentation](https://sing-box.sagernet.org/configuration/) for details and migration options.

- `cargo-codspeed` has been updated from `3.0.5` to `4.2.0`. Version `4.0.0` includes breaking changes. For more information read the [changelog for 4.0.0](https://github.com/CodSpeedHQ/codspeed-rust/releases/tag/v4.0.0).

- `commafeed` has been updated to version 7.0.0, which includes changes impacting its security. Please see [upstream's release notes](https://github.com/Athou/commafeed/releases/tag/7.0.0) for details.

- `corepack_latest` has been removed, as Corepack is no longer distributed with Node.js.

- `spoof` has been removed, as there are many issues upstream with it working on modern OS versions, and it appears to be unmaintained.

- `duckstation` package has been removed, as it was requested by upstream and build source were changed to be incompatible with NixOS.

- `nodePackages.coc-go` and `nodePackages.coc-tsserver`, along with their vim plugins, have been removed from nixpkgs due to being unmaintained.

- `nodePackages.wavedrom-cli` has been removed, as it was unmaintained within nixpkgs.

- `requireFile` now treats any `message` or `url` argument as a literal string, rather than subjecting it to Bash here-doc expansion.  This allows including strings like `$PWD` in the message without needing to know about and handle the undocumented Bash expansion.

- `nodePackages.browserify` has been removed, as it was unmaintained within nixpkgs.

- `nodePackages.sass` has been removed, as it was unmaintained within nixpkgs.

- All `@tailwindcss` packages in the `nodePackages` set have been removed, as they are libraries that should instead be locked by JS projects that utilize them.

- `arti` has been updated to major version 2, which removed the long-deprecated `proxy.socks_port` and `proxy.dns_port` and the legacy syntax for specifying directory authorities. For more information, see the [changelog for 2.0.0](https://gitlab.torproject.org/tpo/core/arti/-/blob/arti-v2.0.0/CHANGELOG.md).

- `kanata` now requires `karabiner-dk` version 6.0+ or later.
  The package has been updated to use the new `karabiner-dk` package and the `darwinDriver` output stays at the version defined in the package.

- Reloading or restarting systemd units from the NixOS activation script is deprecated, and will be removed in NixOS 26.11. This deprecation is part of a bigger effort to deprecate activation scripts altogether, which will take place over several releases. There are no in-tree usages of the now-deprecated reload/restart functionality.

- Keycloak has been updated to 26.6.X, bringing a lot new features like federated client authentication, JWT authorization grants, workflows and the ability to do
  zero-downtime patch releases. Read more about [all the exciting new capabilities in keycloak 26.6 here](https://github.com/keycloak/keycloak/releases/tag/26.6.0)
  and [consult the migration guide to 26.6](https://www.keycloak.org/docs/latest/upgrading/index.html#migrating-to-26-6-0) to find out wether this is a breaking
  change for your keycloak instance.

- `elegant-sddm` has been updated to be Qt6 compatible. Themes for SDDM are slightly different so read the [wiki](https://wiki.nixos.org/wiki/SDDM_Themes) for more.

- `forgejo-lts` has been updated to major version 15. For more information, see the [release blog post](https://forgejo.org/2026-04-release-v15-0/) and [full release notes](https://codeberg.org/forgejo/forgejo/src/branch/forgejo/release-notes-published/15.0.0.md)

- `pulsar` has finally migrated from electron v12 to v30, backup `~/.pulsar` before upgrading. See [Pulsar on Electron 30: what it means for you](https://blog.pulsar-edit.dev/posts/20251202-savetheclocktower-pulsar-on-electron-30/).

- `bartender` has been updated to major version 6. This removes support for MacOS Sonoma (and adds support for Tahoe). For more information, see [the release notes](https://www.macbartender.com/Bartender6/release_notes/) or [the Bartender 6 support page](https://www.macbartender.com/Bartender6/support/).

- `lima` has been updated from `1.x` to `2.x`. This major update includes several breaking changes, such as `/tmp/lima` no longer being mounted by default.

- Varnish Cache has been updated to major version 8, `varnish` now refers to `varnish80`. That release contains breaking changes, see [Upgrading to Varnish-Cache 8.0](https://vinyl-cache.org/docs/8.0/whats-new/upgrading-8.0.html).
  Note that the Varnish 6 LTS release remains available as `varnish60`.

- `eslint` has been updated from version 9 to version 10. Please see https://eslint.org/blog/2026/02/eslint-v10.0.0-released/ for details about the breaking changes included in the update.

- `minio_legacy_fs` has been removed. If you used that package, migrate your data to be compatible with the newest minio and use the package `minio`.

- `mercure` has been update to `0.21.4` (or later). Version [0.21.0](https://github.com/dunglas/mercure/releases/v0.21.0) and [0.21.2](https://github.com/dunglas/mercure/releases/tag/v0.21.2) introduce breaking changes to the package.

- `mozc` and `mozc-ut` no longer contains the IBus front-end, which are now provided by `ibus-engines.mozc` and `ibus-engines.mozc-ut`.

- `nemorosa` has been updated from `0.4.3` to `0.5.0`. Version [0.5.0](https://github.com/KyokoMiki/nemorosa/releases/tag/0.5.0) introduced breaking changes to the package configuration.

- `n8n` has been updated to version 2. You can find the breaking changes here: https://docs.n8n.io/2-0-breaking-changes/.

- `nomad` has been updated to v1.11. Refer to the [release note](https://developer.hashicorp.com/nomad/docs/release-notes/nomad/v1-11-x) for more details. Once a new Nomad version has started and upgraded it's data directory, it generally cannot be downgraded to the previous version.

- The default NVIDIA drivers no longer support Maxwell (GTX 1xxx) or older GPUs. Pin the nvidia package to ` config.boot.kernelPackages.nvidiaPackages.legacy_580` for continued support.

- `gurk-rs` has been updated from `0.6.4` to `0.8.0`. Version `0.8.0` includes breaking changes. For more information read the [release notes for 0.8.0](https://github.com/boxdot/gurk-rs/releases/tag/v0.8.0).

- `iroh` has been removed and split up into `iroh-dns-server` and `iroh-relay`.

- the `xorg` package set has been deprecated, packages have moved to the top level.

- `python3Packages.pygame` has been been renamed to `python3Packages.pygame-original`, the attribute `python3Packages.pygame` will from python 3.14 default to the more actively maintained `python3Packages.pygame-ce`

- `fastly` has been updated to major version 14. For more information, you can check the [release notes](https://github.com/fastly/cli/releases/tag/v14.0.0)

- `peertube` has been updated from `7.3.0` to `8.0.2`, introducing several breaking changes.
  Some notable new features include channel collaboration and video player redesign with a new theme.
  For details on how to upgrade, see the `IMPORTANT NOTES` section of the [v8.0.0 CHANGELOG entry](https://docs.joinpeertube.org/CHANGELOG#v8-0-0).

- `python3Packages.gradio` has been updated to version 6. See upstream's migration guide at https://www.gradio.app/main/guides/gradio-6-migration-guide.

- `python3Packages.pikepdf` no longer builds with mupdf support by default, which may be nice in Jupyter and iPython. Build with `withMupdf = true` if this is required.

- `vicinae` has been updated to v0.20. This includes, among several other breaking changes, a complete overhaul of the configuration system. For update instructions, see the [upstream configuration documentation](https://docs.vicinae.com/config#migration-from-v0-16-x-to-v0-17-x).

- `percona-server_8_4` has been removed. Please update to `percona-server_8_0`, `mysql84` or `mariadb`.

- The `man-pages` package's outputs have been split. The manual pages are installed into the `man` output, which is installed by default. Binaries (including `diffman-git`, `mansect`, `pdfman`, and `sortman`) are installed into the `out` output, which is not installed by default.

- All Log4Shell vulnerability scanners were removed, as they were all unmaintained upstream and are no longer relevant given that the vulnerability has been fixed upstream for several years.

- Plugins for the JetBrains IDEs have been removed from Nixpkgs.

- `spacetimedb` has been updated from 1.12.0 to [2.0.3](https://github.com/clockworklabs/SpacetimeDB/releases/tag/v2.0.3). Breaking changes and migration notes from 1.0 to 2.0 can be found [here](https://spacetimedb.com/docs/upgrade/).

- `jetbrains.plugins.addPlugins` no longer supports plugin names or ID strings.
  You can still use `addPlugins` with plugin derivations, such as plugins packaged outside of Nixpkgs.

- The `programs.captive-browser` module no longer falls back on a setcap wrapper around udhcpc to discover your network's DNS server due to [GHSA-wc3r-c66x-8xmc](https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/security/advisories/GHSA-wc3r-c66x-8xmc) (CVE-2026-25740). If you're using this module, you must either configure `programs.captive-browser.dhcp-dns` manually or enable one of NetworkManager, dhcpcd, or systemd-networkd.

- NetBox was updated to `>= 4.5.5`. Have a look at the breaking changes
  of the [4.5 release](https://github.com/netbox-community/netbox/releases/tag/v4.5.0),
  make the required changes to your database, if needed, then upgrade by setting `services.netbox.package = pkgs.netbox_4_5;` in your configuration.

- The `services.yggdrasil` module has been refactored with the following breaking changes:
  - The `services.yggdrasil.configFile` option has been removed. Configuration should now be specified directly via `services.yggdrasil.settings`.
  - The `services.yggdrasil.persistentKeys` option has been removed. To maintain persistent keys and IPv6 addresses across reboots, use `services.yggdrasil.settings.PrivateKeyPath` to securely load your private key from a file via systemd credentials. The private key must be in PEM format (PKCS #8).
  - Storing `PrivateKey` directly in `settings` is now explicitly forbidden to prevent keys from being stored world-readable in the Nix store.
  - If you previously used `configFile`, migrate your configuration to the `settings` option and extract the private key to a separate file referenced by `PrivateKeyPath`.
  - If you previously used `persistentKeys`, convert your keys to PEM format and store them in a secure location accessible only to root, then reference them via `PrivateKeyPath`.

- `pocket-id` has been updated to version 2 that contains [breaking changes](https://pocket-id.org/docs/setup/major-releases/migrate-v2).

- `services.xserver` will now throw an error if an X11 driver specified in  `videoDriver(s)` cannot be found. Previously, unknown drivers would be silently ignored.

- `asio` (standalone version of `boost::asio`) has been updated from 1.24.0 to 1.36.0. Some breaking changes were introduced between these
  two versions, and the one affected most was the removal of `asio::io_service` in favor of `asio::io_context` in 1.33.0. `asio_1_32_0` is
  retained for packages that have not completed migration. `asio_1_10` has been removed as no packages depend on it anymore.
  `asio` also no longer propagates `boost` as it is used independent from `boost` in most cases.

- `docker-color-output` has been updated from major version 2 to 3. One breaking change is, that they switched to [YAML-based configuration files](https://github.com/devemio/docker-color-output?tab=readme-ov-file#configuration).

- `dasel` has been updated from v2.8.1 to v3. There were significant breaking changes:

  - The `put` and `delete` commands have been removed. Use the new query syntax with expressions to modify data in-place.
  - The `--version` flag is now a subcommand: `dasel version`
  - CLI framework migrated from Cobra to Kong, changing flag parsing behavior
  - Selector syntax has been revamped, see [dasel v3 documentation](https://daseldocs.tomwright.me/v3) for migration guide.

  Example migration:
  - Old: `echo '{"my":{"favourites":{"colour":"blue"}}}' | dasel put -t json -r json -t string -v "red" "my.favourites.colour"`
  - New: `echo '{"my":{"favourites":{"colour":"blue"}}}' | dasel query -i json -o json --root 'my.favourites.colour = "red"'`

- `stalwart-mail` has been renamed to `stalwart`

- Ethercalc and its associated module have been removed, as the package is unmaintained and cannot be installed from source with npm now.

- `coreth` has been removed, as upstream has moved it into `avalanchego`.

- `nodePackages.prebuild-install` was removed because it appeared to be unmaintained upstream.
  See [upstream's recommendations for alternatives](https://github.com/prebuild/prebuild-install#note).

- `davis` made changes to the `IMAP_AUTH_URL` option. The flags are now standalone parameters that you need to fill:
  - Before:
    ```env
    IMAP_AUTH_URL={imap.gmail.com:993/imap/ssl/novalidate-cert}
    ```
  - After:
    ```env
    IMAP_AUTH_URL=imap.mydomain.com:993
    IMAP_ENCRYPTION_METHOD=ssl
    IMAP_CERTIFICATE_VALIDATION=false
    ```

- `python3packages.pillow-avif-plugin` has been removed as the functionality is included in `python3packages.pillow` directly since version 11.3.

- `light` has been removed because it was unmaintained.
  `brightnessctl` and `acpilight` provide similar functionality.

- `opensmtpd-filter-dkimsign` is now installed into `libexec/smtpd` instead of `libexec/opensmtpd` so that now it is properly linked into the environment built by `services.opensmtpd.procPackages`. If you hardcoded path to `filter-dkimsign` please consider using this option.

- `services.openssh.settings.AcceptEnv` now explicitly defined as an option that takes a list of strings, to facilitate option merging. Setting it to a string value is no longer supported.

- All Xfce packages have been moved to top level (e.g. if you previously added `pkgs.xfce.xfce4-whiskermenu-plugin` to `environment.systemPackages`, you will need to change it to `pkgs.xfce4-whiskermenu-plugin`). The `xfce` scope will be removed in NixOS 26.11.

- The Dovecot IMAP server has been updated to version 2.4, with the `dovecot` attribute now referring to this backwards-incompatible version. The attribute `dovecot_2_3` refers to the previous version. The Pigeonhole plugin has been similarly updated to 2.4, with the version compatible with Dovecot 2.3 being at `dovecot_pigeonhole_0_5`. See <https://doc.dovecot.org/latest/installation/upgrade/2.3-to-2.4.html> for more information on how to upgrade.

- `spacefm` was removed because it appeared to be unmaintained upstream.

- `vimPlugins.nvim-treesitter` has been updated to `main` branch, which is a full and incompatible rewrite. If you can't or don't want to update, you should use `vimPlugins.nvim-treesitter-legacy`.

- `services.taskchampion-sync-server` module have been added an option `services.taskchampion-sync-server.dynamicUser` to use systemd's DynamicUser feature. This is enabled by default when stateVersion is at least 26.05, and disabled otherwise. If you need this feature, you need to set `services.taskchampion-sync-server.dynamicUser` to `true` and migrate `/var/lib/taskchampion-sync-server` to `/var/lib/private/taskchampion-sync-server`.

- Package `jellyseerr` has been renamed to `seerr` following the upstream rename.

- The default packages in `services.jenkins.packages` have been dropped, since not every Jenkins installation needs any package at all. It's more reasonable to leave it empty and let users configure what they need.

## Other Notable Changes {#sec-nixpkgs-release-26.05-notable-changes}

<!-- To avoid merge conflicts, consider adding your item at an arbitrary place in the list instead. -->

- `balatro` now supports the Google Play and Xbox PC versions of the game.  Pass the `apk` or `Assets.zip` as `balatro.override { src = "…" }`.

- `uptime-kuma` has been updated to v2, which requires an automated migration that can take a few hours. **A backup is highly recommended.**
  If your SQLite database is corrupted, the migration might fail and require [manual intervention](https://github.com/louislam/uptime-kuma/issues/5281).
  See the [migration guide](https://github.com/louislam/uptime-kuma/wiki/Migration-From-v1-To-v2) for more information.

- The `libcxxhardeningextensive` hardening flag has been **disabled** by default. Enabling it by default in 25.11 was unintentional and may have had a negative effect on performance in some cases. `libcxxhardeningfast` remains enabled by default.

- Switch inhibitors were introduced, which add a pre-switch check that compares a list of strings between the previous and the new generation, and refuses to switch into the new generation when there is a difference between the two lists. This allows to avoid switching into a system when for instance the systemd version changed by adding `config.systemd.package.version` to the switch inhibitors for your system. You can still forcefully switch into any generation by setting `NIXOS_NO_CHECK=1`.

- GNU Taler has been updated to version 1.3.
  This release focuses on getting everything ready for a deployment of GNU Taler by Magnet bank.
  For more details, see the [upstream release notes](https://www.taler.net/en/news/2025-13.html).

- The `services.nextcloud-spreed-signaling` NixOS module has been added to facilitate declarative management of a standalone Spreed signaling server ("High Performance Backend" for Nextcloud Talk).

- `fetchPnpmDeps` and `pnpmConfigHook` were added as top-level attributes, replacing the now deprecated `pnpm.fetchDeps` and `pnpm.configHook` attributes.

- `buildNpmPackage` now supports `npmDepsFetcherVersion` (and `fetchNpmDeps` now supports `fetcherVersion`). Set to `2` to enable packument caching, which fixes builds for projects using npm workspaces.

- Added `dell-bios-fan-control` package and service.

- Added `lovr` package, a LUA-based game engine for VR and XR applications.

- Updated `wsjtx` from 2.7.0 to 3.0.0 for amateur radio hobbyists who use FT8 and other related digital modes.
  See the [release notes](https://wsjt.sourceforge.io/Release_Notes.txt) for the changelog.

- `openrgb` was updated to 1.0rc2, which now uses Plugin API version 4.
  Some existing OpenRGB plugins may be incompatible or require updates.

- `wrapNeovimUnstable` now sets provider-related configuration in its generated config rather than as wrapper arguments. It should not affect configuration unless you set `wrapRc` to false or are using the `legacyWrapper`.

- neovim lua dependencies are now set in the generated init.lua instead of
  modifying LUA_PATH in the wrapper. Commands run pre-vimrc via `nvim --cmd
  "require'LUA_MODULE'"` may
  not find their lua dependencies anymore. Use `nvim -c "lua require'LUA_MODULE'"` instead to run these commands after loading `init.lua`. If you use `wrapNeovim` with `wrapRc` set to `false`, you may lose the lua dependencies if you are not loading the generated `init.lua`.

- We now use the upstream wrapper script for Gradle, supporting both the `JAVA_HOME` and `GRADLE_OPTS` environment variables.

- the `autossh-ng` NixOS module was introduced as a simpler alternative to the existing `autossh` module.

- Added `haskell.packages.microhs`, a set of Haskell packages built with MicroHs.

- `gnuradio`: Overriding the `.pkgs` package set is now possible with a `packageOverrides` function, like with `python.pkgs` and other language-specific package sets.
Example:

```nix
gnuradioMinimal.override {
  packageOverrides = grSelf: grSuper: {
    osmosdr = grSuper.osmosdr.override {
      airspy = null;
      hackrf = null;
      libbladeRF = null;
      soapysdr-with-plugins = null;
    };
  };
}
```

## Nixpkgs Library {#sec-nixpkgs-release-26.05-lib}

<!-- To avoid merge conflicts, consider adding your item at an arbitrary place in the list instead. -->

### Breaking changes {#sec-nixpkgs-release-26.05-lib-breaking}

- The `nodejs_latest` alias now points to `nodejs_25` instead of `nodejs_24`.

- `nodejs-slim` no longer exposes a `corepack` executable, it has been moved to an ad-hoc output; to restore the previous behavior, `nodejs-slim.corepack` must be explicitely included.

- `nodejs` is now a simple wrapper for `nodejs-slim`+`nodejs-slim.npm`+`nodejs-slim.corepack`, meaning it is no longer possible to reference or override its attributes or outputs (e.g. `nodejs.libv8` must be replaced with `nodejs-slim.libv8`, `nodejs.nativeBuildInputs` with `nodejs-slim.nativeBuildInputs`, etc.).

- `navidrome` has removed the built-in Spotify integration https://github.com/navidrome/navidrome/releases/tag/v0.61.0 has details on optional replacements

- `mold` is now wrapped by default.

- The `neovim` package and module now disable by default the `python3` and `ruby` providers, unused by most users and reducing closure size from 365MiB to 240MiB. Host provider executables are not exposed anymore along with the neovim wrapper. You can still refer to those using the neovim provider variables (e.g., `python3_host_prog`).

- `canokey-qemu` support for `qemu` was restored (although disabled by default), after being marked as broken since nixpkgs 25.11. Please note that the format of canokey files has changed, and that some data created with older canokey-qemu release cannot be read by the current version. See the [documentation](https://github.com/canokeys/canokey-qemu/tree/v1?tab=readme-ov-file#compatibility-warning) for details.

### Deprecations {#sec-nixpkgs-release-26.05-lib-deprecations}

- `mpv-unwrapped.scripts` and `mpv-unwrapped.wrapper` have been removed. Please use `mpvScripts` and `mpv.override` accordingly.

- `fetchFromSavannah` is now deprecated and is expected to be fully removed in a future release. From now on, use `fetchgit` or a Savannah releases mirror when applicable.

### Additions and Improvements {#sec-nixpkgs-release-26.05-lib-additions-improvements}

- The builder `php.buildComposerProject2` for PHP applications has been improved for better reliability and stability.

- The `services.drupal` module has a few improvements aimed at making it better for installing custom Drupal instances, namely a new `webRoot` option for identifying custom webroots in source code, a new `configRoot` option for identifying and synchronizing config yamls onto NixOS, and a some new settings for managing variable content and filepaths.
