= Overview =
* CPU: Intel Core 2 Solo U3500 @ 1.40GHz (speeds: 0.8, 1.2 and 1.4GHz), 3MB L2
* Screen: 1366x768 LED

= BIOS versions =
* 1.10 - average ACPI temperature around 34°C, good GL playing
* 1.20 - average ACPI temperature around 39°C, good GL playing
* 1.31 - big slowdown in X windows from time to time, GL games with annoying slowdowns regularly

The most recent BIOS updates (1.20 onwards) come with a DOS flasher; older come only with a windows flasher. I used a [http://www.pcengines.ch/freedos.htm freedos image] stored in a USB flash memory to boot freedos and flash the BIOS.

= Drivers =
All provided in linux 2.6.32 kernels.

Linux 2.6.29 has problems at least with the wire ethernet card (Attansic Technology Corp. Device 1063). Loading and unloading the ethernet card driver module (atl1c) helps getting a working link, although it will change from eth0 to eth1, eth2, or another interface name.

== lspci ==
 00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset Memory Controller Hub (rev 07)
 00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 07)
 00:02.1 Display controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 07)
 00:1a.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #4 (rev 03)
 00:1a.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #5 (rev 03)
 00:1a.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller #2 (rev 03)
 00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) HD Audio Controller (rev 03)
 00:1c.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) PCI Express Port 1 (rev 03)
 00:1c.1 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) PCI Express Port 2 (rev 03)
 00:1d.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #1 (rev 03)
 00:1d.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #2 (rev 03)
 00:1d.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #3 (rev 03)
 00:1d.3 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #6 (rev 03)
 00:1d.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller #1 (rev 03)
 00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 Mobile PCI Bridge (rev 93)
 00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation ICH9M-E LPC Interface Controller (rev 03)
 00:1f.2 IDE interface: Intel Corporation ICH9M/M-E 2 port SATA IDE Controller (rev 03)
 00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) SMBus Controller (rev 03)
 00:1f.5 IDE interface: Intel Corporation ICH9M/M-E 2 port SATA IDE Controller (rev 03)
 00:1f.6 Signal processing controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) Thermal Subsystem (rev 03)
 01:00.0 Ethernet controller: Attansic Technology Corp. Device 1063 (rev c0)
 02:00.0 Network controller: Intel Corporation Wireless WiFi Link 5100

= Configuration =

 {
  # Make te network WLAN card (wlan0) firmware available
  require = [ ./nixos/modules/hardware/network/intel-5000.nix ];
 
  boot = rec {
    initrd = {
      kernelModules = [ "ata_piix" "reiserfs" ];
    };
    kernelParams = [
       "selinux=0"
       "apm=on"
       "acpi=on"
       "vga=0x317"   
       "console=tty1"
       "video=vesafb:ywrap"
       # Important, to disable Kernel Mode Setting for the graphics card
       # This will allow backlight regulation
       "nomodeset"
    ];
    kernelModules = [
      "acpi-cpufreq"
      "cpufreq-ondemand" # not autoloaded in 2.6.32.2
      "kvm-intel"
    ];
    resumeDevice = "8:2";
    extraKernelParams = ["resume=/dev/sda2"];
    kernelPackages = pkgs.kernelPackages_2_6_32;
    postBootCommands = ''
      echo ondemand > /sys/devices/system/cpu/cpu0/cpufreq/scaling_governor
    '';
  };
 
  services = {
    xserver = {
      enable = true;
      defaultDepth = 24;
      videoDriver = "intel";
      exportConfiguration = true;
      enableTCP = true;
      autorun = true;
      driSupport = false;
      synaptics = {
        enable = true;
        dev = "/dev/input/event8";
      };
   };
 };

= X settings =

== Backlight ==
Having disabled Kernel Mode Setting for the i915 kernel drm module (kernel parameter ''nomodeset''), use ''xrandr'' to set:
 xrandr --output LVDS --set BACKLIGHT_CONTROL combination
 xrandr --output LVDS --set BACKLIGHT 300  # ~1000, max light.

If those steps make your mouse cursor not appear, switch to another VT, and then back to X, and it will come.

== Synaptics pad ==
I like the pad speed set by:
 synclient MaxTapTime=0 MaxSpeed=1.12 MinSpeed=0.6 AccelFactor=0.001 VertEdgeScroll=1
Install the ''xf86-input-synaptics-1.2.0'' for ''synclient'' to be in your PATH.

= Suspending and hibernating =
Usual pm-utils work, with pm-suspend and pm-hibernate.

[[Category:Installation]]
[[Category:Hardware]]
[[Category:Laptops]]
