= Overview =

Most of the features seem to be working with Linux >= 3.9

== Hardware ==

* CPU Intel(R) Core(TM) i5-3317U CPU @ 1.70GHz
* RAM 4 GB
* HDD 128GB SSD
* Screen 13.3-Inch Screen
* Graphics Intel HD Graphics 4000, Ivy bridge

= Configuration =

Full configurations is in my
[https://raw.github.com/grwlf/nixpkgs/local/machines/samsung-np900x3c-v2.nix nixpkgs branch]. Note, it requires several local packages.

=== Touchpad ===

Touchpad is detected as 'ETPS/2 Elantech Touchpad'. xf86-input-synaptics handles
it well. Corresponding config lines:

<pre>
  services.xserver = {
    synaptics = {
      enable = true;
      accelFactor = "0.05";
      maxSpeed = "10";
      twoFingerScroll = true;
      additionalOptions =
        ''
        MatchProduct "ETPS"
        Option "FingerLow"                 "3"
        Option "FingerHigh"                "5"
        Option "FingerPress"               "30"
        Option "MaxTapTime"                "100"
        Option "MaxDoubleTapTime"          "150"
        Option "FastTaps"                  "1"
        Option "VertTwoFingerScroll"       "1"
        Option "HorizTwoFingerScroll"      "1"
        Option "TrackstickSpeed"           "0"
        Option "LTCornerButton"            "3"
        Option "LBCornerButton"            "2"
        Option "CoastingFriction"          "20"
        '';
      };
  };
</pre>

=== Wireless ===

System requires iwlwifi-6000g2b-6.ucode in order to work. I've extracted the
file from some debian package and placed it into /root/firmware. Corresponding
config settings:

<pre>
  hardware.firmware = [ "/root/firmware" ];
</pre>

= Problems =
There are some. See

* [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1737086 Ubuntu thread]
* [http://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=44161 Kernel.org bug]
* [http://jablonskis.org/2012/linux-and-samsung-series-laptop-9-fn-keys/ jablonskis.org]

=== BIOS problems ===
I had to disable SSD boot completely in order to boot from USB. Just changing boot priority didn't help.

Fix: Update BIOS up to recent version

=== Battery ===
Battery charging/discharging indicator doesn't work good.

Fix: Update BIOS up to recent version

=== Lid ===
Acpi thinks lid is always open
<pre>
[ierton@greyblade:~]$ cat /proc/acpi/button/lid/LID0/state 
state:      open
</pre>

Related [https://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=44161 Kernel bug #44161]

=== Multimedia keys ===
* rfkill/fanless don't work
* volume up/down don't work
* brightness up/down work, but release is broken
* touchpad disable works

Related discussion on
[http://jablonskis.org/2012/linux-and-samsung-series-laptop-9-fn-keys/ jablonskis.org]

